# mesytec-mvlc listfile to ROOT TTree for Xiaokang Xia

This is example code showing how to use mesytec-mvlc to read a listfile, extract
contained data and write data to a ROOT TTree. Docker is used to make it easy to
test with different ubuntu and/or ROOT versions.

## Changes from the original code

* GUI code is disabled for now, only the runCLI tool remains. I had issues
  correctly building the ROOT dictionary so I removed everything that's not
  immediately needed.

* The ROOT dictionary is built as a shared lib (.so) instead of an object file
  (.o). This way the generated code exists only once instead of being present in
  each executable.

* Added a Dockerfile to be able to test this without having to install
  ubuntu-20.04.


## Using the example

  git clone https://github.com/flueke/mesy_xia_ana
  cd mesy_xia_ana
  wget https://root.cern/download/root_v6.26.16.Linux-ubuntu20-x86_64-gcc9.4.tar.gz
  docker build -f Dockerfile.ubuntu-20.04 --progress plain -t xia-offline-ana .
  mkdir ~/data
  wget https://www.mesytec.com/kundendaten/Xiaokang.Xia/AR31DECAY20240708run117.zip -P ~/data
  docker run -v ~/data/:/data:rw -it --rm xia-offline-ana /sources/runCLI /data/AR31DECAY20240708run117.zip

With the above commands you get a docker image called 'xia-offline-ana'. This
image contains the downloaded ROOT installation and the executable
'/sources/runCLI' which does the same as the runGUI tool did, just without the
GUI.

Example data you sent us (AR31DECAY20240708run117.zip) is then downloaded to a
local directory. In the 'docker run' line this directory is made available to
the container for reading and writing. runCLI processes the whole file, prints
out a lot of debug information and write sthe output .root file.

Look at the Dockerfile for detailed commands needed to get the same to work on a
ubuntu-20.04 machine.

## How it works

The mesytec-mvlc library reads the MVLC CrateConfig from the .zip listfile. This
is used to construct a 'replay' instance which can parse the listfile. Callbacks
are invoked by the library for each event read from the listfile. Within the
callbacks module data is extracted (amplitudes, timings, timestamps, etc.) using
bit-level filters, similar to the ones in mvme.

Module assignment is static for now, you have to write you own configuration if
your mvme VME config changes (see MyExperiment::MyExperiment()).

### Customization and further development

The structures MDPP32_QDC_Data and MDPP32_SCP_Data can be modified. For example
you do not have to extract all channels if you don't need them. If the
structures are changed you also have to update the fill_mdpp32_scp_data()
fill_mdpp32_qdc_data() functions.

The module fill function assignment in MyExperiment::MyExperiment() is very
ugly. Also it only works for this exact structure, so if you add/remove modules
from your VMEConfig you have to adapt the MyExperiment code. I will start work
on another library soon, to make data extraction simpler.

### Contact Info

Florian LÃ¼ke <f.lueke@mesytec.com> 2024
